# soton-nozzle
Method of Characteristics computation to find geometry of a supersonic nozzle at University of Southampton

## Information
_This code was last modified on 2017 Nov 20._

_This code was submitted as an attempt to fulfil part of a course at the University. The content is generated by the owner and the University is not responsible for the content within. The owner is not responsible for use of this code by persons other than said owner (that includes naughty cheaters)._

## Background
A very simple Method of Characteristics computation can be applied to find the minimum geometry of a supersonic nozzle given the fluid properties and a desired exit Mach number.

Refer to similar work mentioned below:

https://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/k-12/airplane/mocnoz.html

https://uk.mathworks.com/help/aerotbx/examples/solving-for-the-exit-flow-of-a-supersonic-nozzle.html

This code was generated by the author after frustration with the current method to find it in their course (manual labour with pencil, paper and a calculator). It can only perform computations with four characteristic lines, but according to the author that is _"good enough"_.

## Method
A table is computed that stores the Mach angle and Prandtl-Meyer function for a given Mach number.

Another table is computed that tabulates information such as the Riemann invariants, Prandtl-Meyer function, Mach angle, flow angle, and x- and y- coordinates for a simple nozzle. It starts at the throat and traverses along the nozzle in various ways to fill in the information.
